New example and docs for Futures (#1634)
mozilla/uniffi-rs: docs/manual/src/futures.md

# Async/Future support

> UniFFI supports exposing async rust functions over the FFI. It can convert a Rust `Future<>/async fn` to and from foreign native futures (`async/await` in Python/Swift, `suspend fun` in Kotlin etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UniFFI supports exposing async rust functions over the FFI. It can convert a Rust `Future`/`async fn` to and from foreign native futures (`async`/`await` in Python/Swift, `suspend fun` in Kotlin etc.)
```

> Check out the [example](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/tree/main/examples/futures) or the more terse and thorough [fixture](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/tree/main/fixtures/futures)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the [examples](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/tree/main/examples/futures) or the more terse and thorough [fixtures](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/tree/main/fixtures/futures).
```

Note that currently async functions are only supported by proc-macros, but UDL would be fairly simple enhancement.

## Example

This is the shortest "async sleep()" I could come up with!
```Rust
use std::time::Duration;
use async_std::future::{timeout, pending};

/// Async function that says something after a certain time.
#[uniffi::export]
pub async fn say_after(ms: u64, who: String) -> String {
    let never = pending::<()>();
    timeout(Duration::from_millis(ms), never).await.unwrap_err();
    format!("Hello, {who}!")
}
```

This can be called by the following Python code:
```python
import asyncio
from uniffi_example_futures import *

async def main():
    print(await say_after(20, 'Alice'))

if __name__ == '__main__':
    asyncio.run(main())
```

This code uses `asyncio` to drive the future to completion, while our exposed function is used with `await`.

> In Rust `Future<>` terminology, this means the foreign bindings supply the "executor" - think event-loop. In this example it's `asyncio`. There's no requirement for a Rust event loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Rust `Future` terminology, this means the foreign bindings supply the "executor" - think event-loop, or async runtime. In this example it's `asyncio`. There's no requirement for a Rust event loop.
```

And the code generated for Rust is something like:

```rust
struct SayAfterHelper {
    rust_future: Future<>,
    uniffi_executor_handle: ::uniffi::ForeignExecutorHandle,
    uniffi_callback: ::uniffi::FfiConverter::FutureCallback,
    uniffi_future_handle: ...,
}

impl SayAfterHelper {
    fn wake(&self) {
        match self.rust_future.poll() {
            Some(Poll::Pending) => {
                // ... snip executor stuff
                self.rust_future.wake()
            },
            Some(Poll::Ready(v)) => {
                // ready - tell the foreign executor
                UniFFI_Magic_Invoke_Foreign_Callback(self.uniffi_callback, self.uniffi_future_handle)
            },
            None => todo!("error handling"),
        }
    }
}

pub extern "C" fn _uniffi_call_say_after(
    uniffi_executor_handle: ::uniffi::ForeignExecutorHandle,
    uniffi_callback: ::uniffi::FfiConverter::FutureCallback,
    uniffi_future_handle: ...,
) {
    // Call the async function to get the Rust future.
    let rust_future = say_after(...)
    let helper = SayAfterHelper {
        rust_future,
        uniffi_executor_handle,
        uniffi_callback,
        uniffi_future_handle,
    );

>     uniffi_rust_future.wake();

Author: I think this should be `helper.wake();`

# Async/Future support

> UniFFI supports exposing async rust functions over the FFI. It can convert a Rust `Future`/`async fn` to and from foreign native futures (`async`/`await` in Python/Swift, `suspend fun` in Kotlin etc.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
UniFFI supports exposing async Rust functions over the FFI. It can convert a Rust `Future`/`async fn` to and from foreign native futures (`async`/`await` in Python/Swift, `suspend fun` in Kotlin etc.)
```

Check out the [examples](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/tree/main/examples/futures) or the more terse and thorough [fixtures](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/tree/main/fixtures/futures).

> Note that currently async functions are only supported by proc-macros, but UDL would be fairly simple enhancement.

Reviewer 2: "fairly simple" until someone actually tries :P 
Maybe something like:

```suggestion
Note that currently async functions are only supported by proc-macros, UDL is not planned yet.
```

Or more open:

```suggestion
Note that currently async functions are only supported by proc-macros, if you require UDL support please file a bug.
```

## Example

> This is the shortest "async sleep()" I could come up with!

Reviewer 2: For others reading it's not clear who "I" is.
Maybe just

```suggestion
This is a short "async sleep()" example:
```

```Rust
use std::time::Duration;
use async_std::future::{timeout, pending};

/// Async function that says something after a certain time.
#[uniffi::export]
pub async fn say_after(ms: u64, who: String) -> String {
    let never = pending::<()>();
    timeout(Duration::from_millis(ms), never).await.unwrap_err();
    format!("Hello, {who}!")
}
```

This can be called by the following Python code:
```python
import asyncio
from uniffi_example_futures import *

async def main():
    print(await say_after(20, 'Alice'))

if __name__ == '__main__':
    asyncio.run(main())
```

This code uses `asyncio` to drive the future to completion, while our exposed function is used with `await`.

> In Rust `Future` terminology, this means the foreign bindings supply the "executor" - think event-loop, or async runtime. In this example it's `asyncio`. There's no requirement for a Rust event loop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Rust `Future` terminology this means the foreign bindings supply the "executor" - think event-loop, or async runtime. In this example it's `asyncio`. There's no requirement for a Rust event loop.
```

> There are [some great rustdoc docs](https://docs.rs/uniffi_core/latest/uniffi_core/ffi/rustfuture/index.html) on the implementation that's well worth a read.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are [some great API docs](https://docs.rs/uniffi_core/latest/uniffi_core/ffi/rustfuture/index.html) on the implementation that are well worth a read.
```

See the [foreign-executor fixture](https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/tree/main/fixtures/foreign-executor) for more implementation details.

## How it works

As [described in the documentation](https://docs.rs/uniffi_core/latest/uniffi_core/ffi/rustfuture/index.html),
UniFFI generates code which uses callbacks from Rust futures back into that foreign "executor" to drive them to completion.

> Fortunately, each of the bindings and Rust have consistent models, so the discussion below is Python, but it's almost exactly the same in Kotlin and Swift.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fortunately, each of the bindings and Rust have similar models, so the discussion below is Python, but it's almost exactly the same in Kotlin and Swift.
```

consistent with what? I think you meant that they are similar and so discussing one implementation translates to the others easily?
